So now, we'll talk a little
bit about manipulating time.
So I've got another example in
here called manipulating time.
And this looks like the notifications
that we had previously out of the box.
It does exactly what we had before.
Let's go and let's see some of the fun
tools that we have at our disposal.
We'll start out with a very
simple operator let me go over to
manipulating time.
And you can kinda see some of
the ones that we have to work with.
I've already imported them here for us.
We've got delay to bounce and throttle.
We've got some of our old friends scan,
map, and tap.
But the ones we wanna talk about delay, to
bounce time, throttle time to bounce and
throttle.
These are ways as we talked about before,
if someone starts rage clicking,
maybe we don't wanna slam the API, right?
Maybe we want to ignore things.
A common use case that we might,
use RXX for is figuring out,
okay, they're they're typing
into an autocomplete, right?
Every keystroke, every keystroke who
wants an API request for the search API?
What about if when they're done typing for
like 300 milliseconds,
then we'll go send one over.
And so there's a bunch of
the ability to control the rate at
which things happen is set
of super useful operators.
So let's take a look here and
let's see what we can learn along the way.
So we have this button and we wanna
delay it two seconds, five seconds,
however many seconds you
want into the future.
So we can pass in the delay operator and
save that.
And now and go ahead on the city
to Mississippi, and it shows up.
Right, now if I rage click,
one Mississippi, two Mississippi, and
here they are, right?
Cuz there's only delay in them two seconds
from when they started that's spacing them
out by two seconds,
it's simply delaying them.
There's a whole bunch of really
interesting ones there are buffer,
which will collect all of them
in a certain amount of time and
give you an array of all
the things that happened.
There's a whole bunch of ones that
probably aren't common enough to make it
worth our time in a fundamentals course.
But definitely, at one point, you'll have
one use case where you need these, and
they are there for you.
But the common ones that we might have is,
be cool if we could
stop the rage clicking.
Especially cuz, once you add a delay
to anything that's slow, I mean,
I wrote this and I wanna rage click
it when it takes two seconds.
Right.
And so what we could do is we could say,
throttle time two seconds.
And I'll repeat this a few
times cuz it bears repeating.
Throttle time into balance time
are basically two sides of the same coin.
Throttle time says let's think through and
then ignore things for
however long, right?
The bounce time is going
to be ignore everything,
till two seconds of quiet have happened.
I'm apparent to this, I relate to this.
Until the two seconds of quiet, and then
I will do whatever it is the last thing
that was queued up for me to do, right?
So total time is, I'm busy, wait a minute.
The bounce time is,
I need a moment of peace,
however many seconds of silence and
then I will go do whatever I meant to do.
So here we can put it away two
seconds let's just get rid of that
let's just say throttle time it's
now I can go to town on this.
And really about every two seconds
you'll see another one up here,
even though I am out of control.
Right.
And then we've got to bounce time for
two seconds,
which is don't do anything
I can keep going I can
keep clicking and go out of control here.
I can trigger whatever it is that
thing I never want it Mac OS to do.
I don't need the dictionary word my
browser but I can keep clicking on it
until I stop for two seconds,
then we'll see it actually happen again,
autocomplete is a great use case for
this, right?
I don't wanna hit the API until
I've chilled out for a moment,
I know they're done, right?
Anything that might be
potentially expensive.
Like most in browser if you're rendering
markdown, for instance, it's pretty quick.
But if you have something that was a
little bit more long running let's not do
it every keystroke.
Let's do it at a natural pause,
right, usually about 300
milliseconds is being good time at
that point and get a sense for it.
And then we've also got just throttle and
debounce and
those work like,
skip until and take until.
Which is basically in total,
another observable emits a value,
either, ignore things until this
other observable emits a value or
do a thing and then stop listening
until something emits a value, right?
And so you have two things that maybe are
dependent you can then tie them together
with just throttle and to bounce.
Effectively we'll look at
a right to throttle time and
to bounce time in a second but we also
have that panic button on the screen which
is just I couldn't come up with a better
name for a button to be honest with you.
So say panic clicks is
from event panic button,
button, button click, and
so we've got that now we could
theoretically to bounce,
based on panic clicks.
Just so the JavaScript doesn't get
angry with me, let's do it in order.
What happens to observable if
you don't subscribe to it?
>> Nothing.
[LAUGH] Nothing happens you observe.
The verbal exists and
no one's around to subscribe to it.
Then it doesn't really matter.
So we don't actually care what
this one does in this case.
And again we'll find ways to kinda batch
them and automatically subscribe and
unsubscribe a little bit but
we do know that we need to subscribe to
it otherwise it will never emit event.
This one actually returns the observable
that you need in this case.
So here's the observable it needs
a factory function in this case, right?
Cuz it's not I think that'll work
actually because this will So
basically do what I just
threatened to which is,
this function will return an observable
that to bounce will subscribe to.
Keep hitting it until they
hit the panic button.
So this gives this function creates
an instance of the factory function.
Create an instance of
a panic click observable.
Once that admits it will then go ahead but
through Serato, we'll do the opposite.
Where we can create a notification, but
nothing happens until we hit the button
again and then we're allowed
to have another one throw.
Right?
So there's different ways to basically
start and stop different
events from flowing through.
I would argue that throttle time and
to bounce time
are probably more common but
if you find yourself okay once they
started dragging ignore stuff
until a drop event happens.
So on and so forth you have the ability
to have control over different events
that fire and begin to orchestrate
them and coordinate them.
>> At some points
a predict a being smooth or
like very responsible the prediction
becomes very resource intensive so
not setting 300 millisecond waiting for
events to add.
Do you have a sense of your comment on how
RXJS handles that if we are if we want
to wait or want to wait for
the end of the session, how much resource,
how much load is going to get placed?
>> I mean you are you're playing
with memory in this case,
the more you keeping track of the the more
memory you're managing, right?
There are ways to basically coordinate
between switching between two
example observables exist so
later we'll look at exhaust map.
So exhaust map says cool until
I'm done with what I'm doing,
ignore everything, right?
But it will kind of orchestrate and
coordinated for you.
Switch map will say,
forget what I was doing.
I wanna go do this new thing.
And some of there
are optimizations under the hood.
So for instance you're using from fetch,
and you switch map and
it stops caring about
the results of that fetch,
it will actually cancel the fetch
request request, right?
And use the bar controller
on the Fetch API.
So you can kind of do stuff but yeah, the
more you are keeping track of, the more
memory you are going to use as you and
so everything is a set of trade offs.
It depends on what you're optimizing for.
If it is optimizing for
DDoS in your own back end,
then a little bit of memory usage
probably isn't the end of the world.
However if you're already playing on the
edge then you might choose to handle it
differently.